---
tags: thoughts
---

## Snippets of life

I've been writing a *lot* of tidbits of learnings in my notes app over the years, and I've seen a *lot* of reels giving me advice on career, friendships, relationships, family, and life. Here are some of my favorites (because I know I would go back and watch all of the reels I've saved).

1. good things come to those who wait (wait = are able to understand long term gratification and hard work) and don't wait (find third doors and relentless pursue and make opportunities).
2. don't people please. in any sense of the word. be yourself. don't try to tell people you'll be there in 5 to make them feel better in the moment when you know you'll take 15. just say you'll take 15. also, stopping people pleasing means that people won't be pleased, and that's ok.
3. whenever you feel that knot in your chest/plexis, take a deep breath. it'll be fine.
4. choose the hard you want.
5. doing the thing will never take that long. just do it now.
6. ask the dumb questions.
7. follow your heart because this is the one life we live.
8. it's all just about truth seeking. not optics, not posturing, just working towards the truth and being curious.
9. there's always a lesson learned.
10. find your strengths and superpowers. utilize those. make them converge with things your interested in if needed.
11. how you act is how you act. it's who you are. if you don't like that, change how you act.
12. eating bitter, or chi ku, can often be good. it can mold you into a stronger person. but it can also kill you if you're just eating bitter for eating's sake.
13. beating yourself up over mistakes is never a good use of time. find the key takeaways, and keep moving.

Things that give me energy:
- meeting incredibly cool people and chatting with them about the things we care about
- thinking about the bigger picture of things and why they matter
- painting and creating something
- watching nature
- learning about things i didn't know about before
- improv