---
project-type: hardware 
type: project
---
## miro: a device to stop us at the mirror
#### in progress

Will be documenting the whole process here.

#### context

Whether it was because my mom used to always ask about my skin (and whether I was drinking enough water) or because I over-obsessed about my skin, I used to spend hours of my week leaning over my sink, observing and picking at almost every millimeter and pore of my face. I knew it wasn't good for me. I knew that the more I picked, poked, and squeezed, the larger my pores would get. The worse my skin would get. But it was so hard for me to stop.

Since high school, I've been thinking about making something that would stop me from scrutinizing my face. Now, I want to actually build the thing. So here it is.

#### ideas

Here's my thought process whenever my face-analyzing starts to happen:

I'll be at the mirror--washing my hands or face--when I spot something or feel an uneven dot on my face. I'll then lean close to the mirror (probably within 2 inches) and see if it's something immediately fixable (ie pick-at-able). Often it is, and so I'll continue there for a number of minutes, just going at it. I know in my mind that I should stop, but usually I fall into a default state and just keep going.

I think there are a couple of possible inputs and outputs:

Inputs:
- Proximity sensor. I need to get close to pick at my face and see where the imperfections are. (ultrasound? time of flight? many such possibilities)

Outputs:
- A mist maker to make my mirror foggy so that I can't see anything.
- A speaker and annoying voice reminder. I'm usually in that default state when I'm that close to the mirror. And if the only way to stop the voice is to back up, I won't be able to pick.
- A bright light. Maybe I just blind myself if I'm really close to the mirror?
- A little OLWD/LCD screen to accompany any of the above possibilities. It can keep track of how many times I've picked in the last x amount of time.
- PDLC (polymer dispersed liquid crystal) screen on top of some acrylic (for easy application and removal onto mirrors). This would literally make it so that I can't clearly see anything. This'll be a lot easier (and convenient for the user (me)).

### ToF Sensor Input + Buzzer Output 

This was pretty straightforward to build. Just to make sure the overall system would work as expected, I started with Adafruit / packaged versions of everything I needed to start. I found some good Adafruit ToF sensor [documentation](https://cdn-learn.adafruit.com/downloads/pdf/adafruit-vl53l0x-micro-lidar-distance-sensor-breakout.pdf), worked with the Seeed Xiao RP2040 documentation, 

### PDLC Output

#### BoM

Here are my possible order lists so far for the bare bones PDLC and buzzer version. I want to get this working before I add on the speaker and OLED screen, just because I feel like this'll have highest effectiveness (and a. because I'm a bit lazy right now to figure out which speaker specs would go well (I may need to make an analog amplifier for it) and b. to see if I have enough pins for a non-I2C protocol screen). (Also, Alec of the EDS lab kindly gave me a Seeed Xiao RP2040, so I'll be using that instead in the meantime):

| Parts	| Quantity vers. | 
| ---- | ---- |
| Seeed Xiao RP2040	| 1 | 
| PDLC screen (6x8.3in) | 2 | 
| ToF Sensor (built in breakout board to offload some work for now) | 2 |

#### project design and dev

##### design

##### electronics